This file contains some notes on how to extend Rowboat.


== ENVIRONMENTS ==

Each environment represents a remote connection for exchanging messages. Environments are modules named EnvPROPERNAME.js and are declared in config.json under "environments".
Environments must never reference other environments or Rowboat modules, and all environments must export exactly the same literals and functions:

name
    The name of the environment. This is used to reference the environment everywhere except in config.json. To avoid confusion, it should be equal to PROPERNAME (read above).

initialize()
    Executed when the environment is loaded. The envirnment's parameters should be loaded here. Return true for success or false for failure.
    By convention, parameters should be stored in LOWERCASENAME.env.json, where LOWERCASENAME is the name of the environment in lower case.
    
connect()
    Should connect the environment and register all remote callbacks as needed. Environments will only be connected after all modules have been initialized.

disconnect()
    Should disconnect the environment. A new connect() may then be issued.
    
msg(targetid, msg)
    Should send a message through the remote connection, to the recipient 'targetid'.
    'targetid' must at least support the following types: null (sends the message to a default target) and "string" (sends the message to the target identified by the string).
    
registerOnError(callback)
    >> callback(env, errormsg)
    Other modules use this to register a callback for execution when an error occurs. 'env' is the environment name and 'errormsg' a string.
    All registered callbacks should be executed in order until one of them returns true.

registerOnMessage(callback)
    >> callback(env, type, message, authorid, rawobject)
    Other modules use this to register a callback for execution when a message is received through the remote connection.
    'env' is the environent name, 'type' is the message type (a string which is "regular" by default) 'message' are the message's contents and 'author' is a string representing the author.
    'rawobject' can be an ENVIRONMENT-SPECIFIC object you wish to expose to the other modules, or null.
    All registered callbacks should be executed in order until one of them returns true.
    
idToDisplayName(id)
    Returns a display name for an authorid/targetid. This can be the id itself.
    
displayNameToId(displayname)
    Returns an authorid/targetid for the given display name, if possible or null if the entity could not be resolved.
    
idIsSecured(id)
    Returns true if the id should be considered by the calling module to be connected securely.
    
idIsAuthenticated(id)
    Returns true if the id should be considered by the calling module to be authenticated (the identity of the connection has been verified).

getRawObject()
    This returns an ENVIRONMENT-SPECIFIC object providing direct access to the remote connection to other modules, or null.


== MODULES ==

Modules provide behavior for Rowboat. Without modules, Rowboat will not do anything.  Modules are named ModPROPERNAME.js and are declares in config.json under "modules".
Modules can reference environments and other modules, in accordance with the rules described below.

Every module must export the literals and functions listed below, and in addition can export any other functions for exposition to its dependents.

name
    The name of the module. This is used to reference the module everywhere except in config.json. To avoid confusion, it should be equal to PROPERNAME (read above).
    
requiredenvironments
    A list of environments that must be loaded for the module to be allowed to load.
    All environments used by the declaring module should be listed here.
    
requiredmodules
    A list of modules that must have been previously loaded for the module to be allowed to load.
    All modules directly used by the declaring module should be listed here.
    
initialize(environments, modules, moduleRequest)
    Executed when the module is loaded. The module's parameters should be loaded here, and any callbacks should be registered here. Return true for success or false for failure.
    By convention, parameters should be stored in LOWERCASENAME.mod.json, where LOWERCASENAME is the name of the module in lower case.
    'environments' is a map with the environments loaded by Rowboat, to be used for registering callbacks. Trust only in the presence of requiredenvironments.
    'modules' is a map with the modules previously loaded by Rowboat. Trust only in the presence of requiredmodules.
    'moduleRequest' is a function that can be used to register a callback for execution with a module that may not have been loaded yet. This should only be done within initialize().
        >> moduleRequest(modname, callback)
        >> callback(module)
    If the module has already been loaded, the callback is executed immediately.
